README.md, before:

# Yaks - A non-linear TODO list for humans and robots

Yaks is CLI tool for managing Yak Maps - a TODO list of nested goals - designed for teams of humans and robots working on software projects together.

A Yak Map is basically the same as a [Mikado Graph](https://mikadomethod.info) or a [Discovery Tree](https://www.fastagile.io/method/product-mapping-and-discovery-trees). But I like calling it a Yak Map.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e935831-7807-4127-a698-3fdb50615080)

## Isn't this just like Beads?

I've been using Yak Maps for several years working on teams of humans. We just used to cobble something together in Miro or whatever. [Beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads) was the first tool I've seen that supports this kind of acyclic graph for managing work, and I've found it hugely inspiring in this robot-driven era.

But beads has some shortcomings, for me:

* I like my software simple. I want my tools to do one thing well, and have minimal code and feeatures. Beads, for me, is over-featured and complicated.
* Yaks all the way down. There are no classifications of task here: epics, stories, tasks and whatnot. Everything is a yak.
* No more committing your plan to git. Yaks uses a hidden git ref to sync changes, so with `yx sync` anyone with a clone of the repo and a connection to `origin` can be working off the same list at the same time.

## Installation

### Quick Install (macOS/Linux)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattwynne/yaks/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Manual Install

1. Clone the repository
2. Add `bin/` to your PATH
3. Source the completion script in your shell config:
   ```bash
   source completions/yx.bash
   ```

### Development Setup

Uses direnv to automatically configure PATH and completions:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mattwynne/yaks.git
cd yaks
direnv allow
```

## Usage

```bash
yx add Fix the bug          # Add a new yak
yx context Fix the bug      # Add context/notes
yx ls                       # Show all yaks
yx done Fix the bug         # Mark as complete
yx rm Fix the bug           # Remove a yak
yx prune                    # Remove all done yaks
```

Tab completion works for yak names after sourcing the completion script.

## Project Status

**Active development** - This tool is being used to build itself (dogfooding). See `.yaks/` for the actual work tracker.

## Testing

Uses [ShellSpec](https://shellspec.info/) for testing:

```bash
shellspec
```

## License

[Add license here]

Commit message:

Remove redundant prune+sync test
The original test didn't reproduce the bug because
it tested single-user scenario without divergence.
Kept the test with divergent remote that properly
verifies the fix.

Also restored README.md which had unrelated changes.

README.md, after:

# Yaks - A non-linear TODO list for humans and robots

> It is in the doing of the work that we discover the work that we must do
> -- Woody Zuill, https://agilemaxims.com

Yaks is CLI tool for managing Yak Maps - a TODO list of nested goals - designed for teams of humans and robots working on software projects together.

A Yak Map is basically the same as a [Mikado Graph](https://mikadomethod.info) or a [Discovery Tree](https://www.fastagile.io/method/product-mapping-and-discovery-trees). But I like calling it a Yak Map.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1e935831-7807-4127-a698-3fdb50615080)

## Isn't this just like Beads?

I've been using Yak Maps for several years working on teams of humans. We just used to cobble something together in Miro or whatever. [Beads](https://github.com/steveyegge/beads) was the first tool I've seen that supports this kind of acyclic graph for managing work, and I've found it hugely inspiring in this robot-driven era.

But beads has some shortcomings, for me:

* I like my software simple. I want my tools to do one thing well, and have minimal code and feeatures. Beads, for me, is over-featured and complicated.
* Yaks all the way down. There are no classifications of task here: epics, stories, tasks and whatnot. Everything is a yak.
* No more committing your plan to git. Yaks uses a hidden git ref to sync changes, so with `yx sync` anyone with a clone of the repo and a connection to `origin` can be working off the same list at the same time.

## Installation

### Quick Install (macOS/Linux)

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattwynne/yaks/main/install.sh | bash
```

### Manual Install

1. Clone the repository
2. Add `bin/` to your PATH
3. Source the completion script in your shell config:
   ```bash
   source completions/yx.bash
   ```

### Development Setup

Uses direnv to automatically configure PATH and completions:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mattwynne/yaks.git
cd yaks
direnv allow
```

## Usage

```bash
yx add Fix the bug          # Add a new yak
yx context Fix the bug      # Add context/notes
yx ls                       # Show all yaks
yx done Fix the bug         # Mark as complete
yx rm Fix the bug           # Remove a yak
yx prune                    # Remove all done yaks
```

Tab completion works for yak names after sourcing the completion script.

## Project Status

**Active development** - This tool is being used to build itself (dogfooding). See `.yaks/` for the actual work tracker.

## Testing

Uses [ShellSpec](https://shellspec.info/) for testing:

```bash
shellspec
```

## License

[Add license here]
